Sample Size & Assumptions


Question 1
A poll was done at a public University asking undergraduate students whether they are an in state student or out of state student. A sample of 232 undergraduate
students at the University were asked and it was revealed that 43% of students were from out of state. From the results, a 95% confidence interval was calculated
to be (0.3663, 0.4937).
Which of the following corresponds to the value of 43%? (Select all that apply)
Sample proportion

Question 2
In order to make the above confidence interval researchers first had to check their assumptions. Select all the appropriate assumptions that are needed to create 
a one population proportion confidence interval.
The sample proportion comes from data that is considered a simple random sample
The number of respondents who replied "out of state" must be at least 10
The number of respondents who replied "in state" must be at least 10

Question 3
What is the margin of error for the given 95% confidence interval above?
0.0637

Question 4
A larger sample was taken and the same sample proportion was found. How would the width of the 95% confidence interval change from our initial interval?
Shorten

Question 5
If the researcher would like to have their confidence interval be narrower, more precise, which of the following would achieve this?
Change the confidence level to 90%

Question 6
What minimum sample size does the researcher need in order to create a 95% conservative confidence interval with a margin of error of no more than 4%?
601

Question 7
What minimum sample size does the researcher need in order to create a 98% conservative confidence interval with a margin of error of no more than 3%?
1503

Question 8
Which of the following would be considered an appropriate interpretation of the given 95% confidence interval?
We are 95% confident that the population proportion of out of state undergraduate students at this University is between 36.63% and 49.37%

Question 9
Which of the following best describes the confidence level in the context of the problem?
If we repeated this study many times, each time producing a new sample (of the same size) from which a 95% confidence interval is computed, then 95% of the
resulting confidence intervals would be expected to contain the population proportion of out of state undergraduate students at this University.

Question 10
Based on the reported 95% confidence interval (and no additional calculations), does it appear there is a minority of undergraduate students at the University
that are from out of state?
Yes, because the entire interval is below 50%
