Peer-graded Assignment: Chocolate & Cycling Assignment

Dark or White?

Enter the text from your memorandum into the text box provided. If desired, you can use text formatting to increase the readability of your memorandum. 
Submit your assignment by the deadline in order to give peers time to review your assignment.

To,
The Trainer,
U S bicycle team.

Subject : Recommendation of chocolates in the diet of bicycle riders.

The study about the effects of the consumption of chocolate (dark chocolate and white chocolate) on cyclists during cycling. Our parameter of interest is the
all-out bicycle sprint performance (meters). The results we got from the study after conducting it on 9 male participants was measured in 2 trails, one after 
consumption of dark chocolate for a week and one after consumption of white chocolate for a week. So, we have a population paired data.  
The order in which the participants consumed dark or white chocolate was selected at random, we will consider our data as a random sample and they are independent 
of one another. We have been told to consider the data normal.

Analysis and interpretation of results :  
After having white chocolates for a week and after consuming dark chocolate for a week. We have the mean, and standard deviation for all the three along with
the corresponding p-value of white and dark chocolate compared with the baseline.  
1. p value = 0.319 
2. mu1 - mu = 1606 - 1367 = 239 meters 
3. 95% confidence interval of dark chocolate: (165 m, 314 m)
4. m2 - mu= 1419 - 1367 = 52 meters 

The difference in mean (mu1 - mu2) = 1606 - 1419 = 187 meters 95% confidence interval for dark chocolate vs white chocolate: (82 m, 292 m)

We can see that difference between average distance travelled after consumption chocolate compare to baseline is positive. Hence we can say that performances
are better after consumption of chocolates. But, is it significant?  To check we see that at the 95% confidence interval, we get a range of reasonable values to be
between 165 meters and 314 meters and our value happens to be 239 m which is between the confidence interval.  For the hypothesis test, we see that
we get a p-value of 0.001 which implies that if we consider our Null hypothesis to be true, the values we got is 0.1% possible. 
That means we have sufficient proof to reject our Null hypothesis. This implies that  there is  significant difference between the performance of participants 
after having dark chocolate.    

We can see that difference between average distance travelled after consumption white chocolate compare to baseline is positive. Hence we can say that 
performances are better after consumption of chocolates. But, is it significant? For the hypothesis test, we see that we get a p-value of 0.319 which implies
that if we consider our Null hypothesis to be true, the values we got is 3.19% possible. That means we have sufficient proof to fail  to reject our Null hypothesis.
This implies that  there is  no significant difference between the performance of participants after having white chocolate.    
Now we see that the difference between consuming dark chocolate and white chocolate on the distance cycled is over 187 meters in favor of dark chocolate.
So, from our sample we see that dark chocolate makes the cyclists perform better. We see that the confidence interval is (82 meters, 292 meters). 
187 meters lies inside the confidence interval. Since both values in the confidence interval is positive, we can also conclude with 95% confidence that dark
chocolate makes cyclists perform better than those who take white chocolate.
For our Hypothesis test, we see that the p-value we get is 0.003 which is less than 0.05, our significance level. So, from this, we see that if our Null 
hypothesis was true, we would get the value of 187 meters only 0.003% of the time. This makes our null hypothesis look ridiculous. And since the value is way less 
than 0.05, we will reject the null hypothesis and conclude that there is significant difference between the effect of dark chocolate versus white chocolate on
cyclists. In addition, we can say that dark chocolate performs much better than white chocolate.

Conclusion : 
From this, we can conclude that there is significant difference between the performance of cyclists when they took chocolates versus their performance when they
did not take chocolates. Chocolates seem to have a positive effect on their performance. In addition, consuming dark chocolate gives a greater performance boost 
than consuming white chocolates.  Hence the inclusion of chocolates  in the diet of bicycle riders is promoted for better results in the race. And the dark chocolate
over white chocolate is favored. 

