
Question 1
You are interested in predicting the probability that an NCAA men's basketball team wins their first round game in the annual NCAA men's basketball tournament, where potential predictors of the binary indicator of winning the first game include a variety of team-level variables measured for each of the 64 teams competing in the first round. There is only one observation per team, and the dependent variable is a binary indicator (1, 0) of whether the team won their first round game. 
What type of model would you fit?
Ans: Logistic regression model

Question 2
You are interested in estimating the relationship between gender (the IV) and a binary indicator of ever having experienced a major depressive disorder (the DV), where both
variables were collected from a large national sample that involved area cluster sampling. You also wish to estimate between-cluster variance in the
probability of having experienced a major depressive disorder, and explain this variance with the fixed effects of cluster-level covariates. 
What type of model
would you fit?    
Ans: Multilevel logistic regression model with random cluster effects

Question 3
You want to fit a model
that enables the prediction of a continuous measure of birth weight for all of
the newborns at a single large hospital. The data arise from a simple random
sample of 500 births, and the predictors including information collected from
both the mother and the father. 
What type of model would you fit?    
Ans: Linear regression model

4.
Question 4
After publishing a research
paper describing the results from the model fitted for Question #3, you are
contacted by 20 other large hospitals, and they wish to contribute to the
estimation of a model for predicting birth weight. The team agrees that
estimation of the variance in expected birth weight between hospitals and
explanation of that variance with hospital-level covariates is a key objective.
What type of model would you fit?     
Ans: Multilevel linear regression model with random hospital effects

Question 5
You wish to fit a model to
a "forced choice" binary dependent variable measuring political party
preference (if you had to pick a political party, which would you select:
Democratic or Republican?), and examine the relationship of parental political
attitudes with the preference of the respondents. Based on the study design,
there are multiple respondents measured from each of several neighborhoods, and
respondents within the same neighborhood may have shared political views, but
you aren't interested in explicitly estimating between-neighborhood variance.
You only wish to estimate the overall relationship of interest in the larger
population, and account for possible within-neighborhood correlation in the DV. 
What type of model would you fit?     
Ans: Marginal logistic model, fitted using GEE







